---
title: On Turning 30

image: on-turning-30.jpg

layout: post

meta_title: Thoughts On Turning 30, Eating Better, and Living Healthier

meta_description: Thoughts on turning 30, becoming healthier, and overcoming gluttonous food portions. Also, a bit about taking mini trips instead of staycationing.

summary: Don't make a resolution to do something. Just do it.

summary-class: health

page-class: dark-texture

post-type: article

categories:
- thoughts

tags:
- health
- diet
- food
- vegetables

---

## A Healthier Me
Yep, I turned 30 and found myself looking at my life in a more serious way than before; and arriving at many significant conclusions in the process.

> I don't know how to cook.

Worse than not cooking, I've made terrible food choices my whole life. Growing up, family/school never promoted healthy eating (as we now know it today). Or rather, I never truly learned why eating healthy is important. School lunches were nutrition disasters ; and I only cared about pizza. My family meals didn't always include leafy greens or vegetables to go with protein and carbs. If they did, I likely wanted nothing to do with any of it. As a child, I could be a challenging eater and my parents picked their battles wisely. Also, worth noting is that nutrition knowledge in the 80s/90s is not what it is now. I'm reflecting back on the nutrition in my childhood applying an updated measurement to unchanged variables. Probably not the most accurate assessment, but I digress.

Fast forwarding to my teen years, I knew damn well that eating fast/frozen foods weren't good choices at the time. I just never cared to do anything about it. Cooking intimidated me, and stupidly, I hated dirty dishes.

> I'm learning how to cook.

Some time in August I decided enough was enough. I radically changed my diet, and have never felt better. No more frozen entrees, frozen pizza, or any other sodium-filled, high calorie, packaged food product. That trash has been replaced by fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts, hummus, and lean meats.

#### This is my meal plan most days:

**Breakfast:** A slice of whole wheat bread with creamy natural peanut butter on top, a banana, and 2 servings of carrots.

**Lunch:** A sandwich filled with (lots of) spinach, turkey, hummus, a few cucumber slices (sometimes), 2 slices of cheese, and 4-5 Kashi 7 Grain Sea Salt Pita Chips (totally makes the sandwich).

**Dinner:** A serving of lean ground turkey (spiced up), raw unblanched almonds, walnuts, unsalted sunflower seeds, and shredded cheese heaped on top of a full serving of spinach.

**Snacks:** An apple, raw unblanched almonds, bananas, or yogurt.

I plan to try new recipes in 2013, and figure out how to cook more refined dishes - but still with an emphasis on health. To date I've lost 40 pounds. Losing 20 more will get me to an ideal weight for my height. Who knew that losing weight was as easy as changing your diet? It is that easy. I've always struggled with weight. That struggle had everything to do with what (and how much) I was eating.

### Portion Control
Eating healthy goes hand-in-hand with portion control. As Americans, every one of us is inundated with gluttonous food portions. Fast food is an easy solution; it tastes good, and it's cheap. When you start eating nutrition-rich food, your stomach and body take notice. I rarely eat fast food now days, and when I do, it's not great. My tastes have changed. Eating healthy tastes better.

> Duh.

### Resources That Helped Me
<a href="http://www.livestrong.com/" title="Livestrong" class="icon-link">livestrong.com</a> came up in google searches for almost every food-related question I had. From wondering why I felt dizzy the first week or so after changing my diet (due to caloric deficit), to how to get enough nutrition as a vegetarian, Livestrong has information for you.

<a href="http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Forks_Over_Knives/70185045?trkid=7644894" title="Forks Over Knives on Netflix" class="icon-link">Forks Over Knives</a> is a great documentary about the benefits of eating all plant-based foods over meat. It provided me with many "ah ha" moments. One such moment was how your body produces insulin, and how it can become resistant.

<a href="http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Fat_Sick_Nearly_Dead/70173634?trkid=7644894" title="Fat, Sick, and Nearly Dead on Netflix" class="icon-link">Fat, Sick, and Nearly Dead</a> follows 2 men who are overweight, battle diseases, and generally live unhealthy lives. Their story is a catalyst of inspiration.

<a href="http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Fat_Head/70115017?trkid=2361637" title="Fat Head on Netflix" class="icon-link">Fat Head</a> is a rebuttal, of sorts, to Morgan Spurlock's film Supersize Me. This film is way better than Supersize Me.

<a href="http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Vegucated/70245084?trkid=7644894" title="Vegucated on Netflix" class="icon-link">Vegucated</a> examines three meat eaters going through the process of becoming vegan. Watching this film and Forks Over Knives made me seriously question if I want to continue consuming meat.

> Don't make a resolution to do something. Just do it.

## Mini Vacations Over Staycations
I have an inner struggle and harsh dialogue with myself every winter.

> I'm constantly asking myself "why the hell do you still live in Minnesota?"

The easy answer is that I love my neighborhood, my family, and the friends I've made. Which is also all the reasons I've chosen not to move, yet. I still long to live in a more mild winter climate, and would like to be able to further limit reliance on a car for transportation.

### Austin
This year I took a mini trip to Austin, TX. Austin was the first on a short list of cities I want to visit - to see if I'd want to move away from Minnesota. I didn't latch-on to Austin as I hoped, but I will be returning in the summer time to see just how hot it gets. It seems like a fantastic place to live, but I'm not sure if it's awesome enough to leave comfort.

### New York
I plan on visiting New York some time in 2013. I'll see good friends and learn a bit about what it might be like to live there. One big draw to New York is the walkability. I definitely wouldn't notice a climate change, but being extra active would be nice.

## Grandma Tower
My grandmother passed away this year. She was 95 years old, just a few weeks shy of 96. It was hard saying goodbye, but I had been preparing to hear the bad news for years. She lived an incredible life. I feel very grateful to have had such a thoughtful, caring, and truly beautiful human being in my life for 30 years. This post is for my grandmother. A woman who wanted nothing more for me than happiness. Thank you, grandma.

## In Conclusion
2012 was probably the most personally significant year I've had in my adult life. Losing a family member is always difficult, but it is life. Here's to 2013 being the best year ever.
